[Music]
doggone it if your normally amiable
pooch
suddenly starts growling at you when you
look it in the eye well
stop doing that dogs take such a
straightforward look as a challenge
and may even attack or start barking at
you if the dog loves you and recognizes
you as its master though
it may look back and make those eyes big
and dreamy that's a sign of trust and
friendship
now you've probably seen your pet going
in circles over its favorite sleeping
spot
before finally lying down that's okay
it's their instinct kicking in it goes
back to the times when dogs still ran
wild and slept on the ground
they would smooth down the soil and
grass with their paws
then dig and scratch at the ground to
get rid of stones and tree cones
i still do that now they have all those
fluffy cushions and beds
yet still they can't but make them even
comfier
running in circles without aiming to lie
down though might be a sign that
something's wrong
if your dog chases its tail only
occasionally that's fine
especially if it's young and full of
energy just go play with it and you'll
both be all right
but when your furry bud does it too
often take it to the vet
just in case sometimes circling and tail
chasing could mean
inner ear infections or even seizures
riley come here you call and suddenly
burst out laughing
your doggo comes in hauling itself with
its front paws
while its furry bottom drags on the
floor that might seem funny but the
reason is usually
far from laughable it means your pooch
needs to scratch itself in the neither
regions
if it doesn't stop soon or repeats this
behavior take it to the vet
it might be parasites you ever have this
feeling you just can't take all the
stress anymore and need to scream
yeah pretty much every day well dogs can
have it too
when your dog howls it lets it all out
which makes it feel better
don't scold your good boy or girl
they're just having a bad hair day and
need a little comfort
yawning in your presence can mean a lot
of things apart from just being drowsy
if your dog yawns in front of you while
you're all alone
it's a sign of trust and friendship in
the wild
canines yaw to show their submission if
it opens its jaws that wide in public
with lots of people around
then the pooch is probably nervous
cuddle it a bit to reassure it
cuddles actually mean a lot to dogs they
can lie with you before going to sleep
to show you their affection or just lean
at your legs while you're standing
it's their equivalent of a hug and when
you're sitting
and your body lies on its side right on
your feet
it wants to protect you from harm you
only need to wriggle your toes to make
it stand up again
it'll take the cue now you've just
washed your doggo with a sweet smelling
shampoo
and let it run around the yard but as
soon as it goes outside
it finds the biggest deepest and
dirtiest pool of mud and happily leaps
into it
to add insult to injury the pooch rolls
around
covering itself in dirt and grime and
then runs at you
smiling the happiest smile oh boy well
dogs do that in fact to get rid of that
shampoo you just washed them with
consider
changing it because your bud clearly
doesn't like the scent
or it could be reaching out to its wild
ancestors
and trying to cover its own smell with
dirt this way the potential prey won't
see it coming
beware stuffed bear you walk in the park
and suddenly your dog stops in its
tracks
its fur bristles its nose goes swiveling
in every direction
and it raises its front leg don't worry
your friends just smelled something
interesting and is about to
investigate the scent if it's on a leash
well
hold on otherwise you're risking an
unexpected run with your furry detective
when your pooch is done hunting you
notice it eating grass
hey bud why are you hungry let's go home
and eat that
no the reason is that dogs need grass
sometimes
it helps them better digest the food and
if there's not enough fiber in their
diet
they compensate this lack with the green
stuff so consider making changes to your
dog's food
and try not to let it eat grass too much
strands might be sharp
and it can get cut inside just like you
can cut your finger
now you lie in bed scrolling the feed in
your smartphone
then look at your dog and it suddenly
gives you a wink
what the answering your question no
it's not letting you in on some dirty
secret dogs wink when there's something
in their eye they
want to get rid of so take a look if
they need some help with that
or if you stare at it long enough it
could wink to break the eye contact
staring straight in the eye for a long
time is a threat
so riley's just letting you know you're
cool
every day several times a day you take
your dog's food bowl to the kitchen
but then find it in another place
altogether and
riley's not going to explain himself
looking at you with those oh
cutesy eyes of his well hauling their
bowls around means they're protecting
their food from strangers
not you of course but if there are other
animals in the house
they might be prone to stealing each
other's food
many dogs love belly rubs and if you're
lucky enough
you can find that sweet spot on their
underbelly that makes your pals hind leg
jerk like crazy
remember it and go for it every time
your doggo loves it
it feels as if you're making this spot
itch and scratching it at the same time
imagine how good it must be it's an
involuntary reaction too much like the
knee-jerk reflex in humans
so it also helps the vet find out if
everything's okay with your pooch's
nerves
if it stops jerking the leg at some
point it might be a signal to go for a
checkup
oops my belly seems to disagree with
today's breakfast
i need the bathroom riley where are you
going
i didn't ask for company hey if your dog
follows you everywhere
it's because it sees you as part of its
pack
an ancient instinct tells it you
shouldn't go alone
as the dog sees it when you're out of
sight you might be in danger
so it needs to protect you just like you
protected at all times
hey dogs have dreams too watch your
pooch when it sleeps
if you see it jerking its legs as if
it's running in place
or it's panting or whimpering quietly it
means the fluffy guy's in the middle of
a dream hunt
hey my dog even barks in his sleep
who knows maybe there's even a place for
you in this dream
telling him he's a good boy
some dogs are so big you wonder if you
can ride them into battle
well sometimes other dogs see them as
mounts too
dogs love to play with each other even
if their sizes are incompatible
that's why bigger dogs would allow small
ones to jump on their backs and give
them a ride
they know their size is their advantage
so in a playful fight
they give their tiny playmate some slack
hey riley have you broken my favorite
cup again
ah look at those big guys how can you be
angry at them
hey don't make any mistake when a dog
looks at you like that
it just doesn't understand what you're
crazy at if the pooch realizes it's
guilt
it will put out its tongue and remorse
instead and probably press its ears to
the head too
ah don't look at me like that i'm going
to work and you know i have to
if your dog sits in front of the door
seeing you off to work
to see friends or whatever it's not
actually being sad or mad at you for
leaving it
it's just sitting there to see you off
that's all
this behavior shows you how much you
mean to your furry buddy
and he knows you'll be back eventually
so just say goodbye
tell him who's a good boy and be off
with you
riley stop growling the postman doesn't
mean you any harm
aggressive behavior toward humans may
seem to come from some arcane sixth
sense
it looks as if they know who's a bad
person and who's good
but in reality pooches react to certain
movements
physical attributes of a person or
behavior they don't like
basically just like we humans do so it's
perfectly okay to give your dog a little
shove
if it growls at someone you know for
sure is a fine human being
i think riley also barks at the delivery
guy for not leaving him
something too but that's just my theory